Modify rule S5147(Java): Add Educational content (APPSEC-95) (#1196)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S5147/java/how-to-fix-it/mongo-java-driver.adoc

=== How to fix it in Legacy Mongo Java Driver

> The following code is vulnerable to NoSQL injections because untrusted data is
> interpreted by the `$where` expression.

Author: I'm going to slightly adjust your suggestion, to add the technical impact:

```suggestion
The following code is vulnerable to NoSQL injections because untrusted data is
concatenated to the `$where` operator. In this case, the untrusted data will be
interpreted as code, instead of a regular string.
```

[cols="a"]
|===
h| Non-compliant code example
|
[source,java]

> ----

Author: I'm not sure about adding imports... It's likely to end up as a big chuck of lines in the end, and IMHO this could be more of a clutter.

Since this code will be shown to people that have the exact same library, I'm not sure I would do this. But this can be debatable. WDYT?

> ----

Author: I added imports in the end, it should be alright 👍

protected void doGet(HttpServletRequest req, HttpServletResponse resp) throws UnknownHostException
{
    String input = req.getParameter("input");
    
    MongoClient mongoClient = new MongoClient();
    DB database             = mongoClient.getDB("exampleDatabase");
    DBCollection collection = database.getCollection("exampleCollection");
    BasicDBObject query     = new BasicDBObject();

>     query.put("$where", "this.field == \"" + input + "\""); // Noncompliant

Reviewer: Non-compliant code is not flagging.

}
----
h| Compliant solution
|
[source,java]
----
protected void doGet(HttpServletRequest req, HttpServletResponse resp) throws UnknownHostException
{
    String input = req.getParameter("input");
    
    MongoClient mongoClient = new MongoClient();
    DB database             = mongoClient.getDB("ExampleDatabase");
    DBCollection collection = database.getCollection("exampleCollection");
    BasicDBObject query     = new BasicDBObject();

    query.put("field", input);
}
----
|===

=== How does this work?

include::../../common/fix/validation.adoc[]

In the previous example, the untrusted data doesn't need validation for its use
case. Moving it out of a `$where` expression into a proper field query is

> enough.

Reviewer: We could give a bit more emphasis to these types of solutions in the how-to-fix-it section referring to them as safe built-in methods or something.

Author: Yes, I think we could definitely use a part about "why you shouldn't use operators". I keep this in mind.

concatenated to the `$where` operator. This operator indicates to the backend
that the expression needs to be interpreted, resulting in code injection.

[cols="a"]
|===
h| Non-compliant code example
|
[source,java]
----
protected void doGet(HttpServletRequest req, HttpServletResponse resp) throws UnknownHostException
{
    String input = req.getParameter("input");

    MongoClient mongoClient = new MongoClient();
    DB database             = mongoClient.getDB("exampleDatabase");
    DBCollection collection = database.getCollection("exampleCollection");
    BasicDBObject query     = new BasicDBObject();

    query.append("$where", "this.field == \"" + input + "\""); // Noncompliant

    collection.find(query).limit(100).toArray();
}
----
h| Compliant solution
|
[source,java]
----
protected void doGet(HttpServletRequest req, HttpServletResponse resp) throws UnknownHostException
{
    String input = req.getParameter("input");

    MongoClient mongoClient = new MongoClient();
    DB database             = mongoClient.getDB("ExampleDatabase");
    DBCollection collection = database.getCollection("exampleCollection");
    BasicDBObject query     = new BasicDBObject();

>     query.put("field", input);

Reviewer: Since the put method is not supported, we should provide a different compliant solution (if there is any).

Author: ```suggestion
    query.append("field", input);
```
